So, we've been looking
at the Firefox Debugger.
You might be working in Chrome or Safari
or another browser, different browser's
Dev Tools work differently, so
their debuggers work differently.
So you can read up on them,
there're some links in the slides here.
You can read up in the documentation for
your particular browser,
how its developer tools work.
And in fact, there is,
I believe an entire course on using
developer tools on front end masters.
So if you think this is fun, and
you're like, clicking around and
poking around in the web page in your Dev
Tools, you can take that course next and
kind of get even more tricks
up your sleeve there.
But suffice it to say that the the
debugger and kind of looking into what's
going on inside of your functions and
different parts of your code can be
a useful way to figure out when something
is going wrong, what is going wrong.
And so then once we've figured out
where something is going wrong, or
maybe where it is likely,
maybe we already have an idea of where
it's likely that something might go wrong.
We're trying something a little dangerous,
then we can do something about it,
we can handle it.
So, what usually happens in JavaScript,
is that certain code will
throw an exception or
an error that then will cause
JavaScript to stop running our code.
So if I have some function,
this throws an error that is, and
the keyword in JavaScript
to throw an error is throw.
We haven't really looked in detail at that
because usually we will be running into
errors and maybe some other module that
we've loaded or something like that.
But if we do need to manually throw
an error we can use the keyword throw.
And if we have a function that
throws an error, let's say, or
a line in our code that throws an error
because a variable wasn't declared or
something like that, as we've seen before,
when we had a missing variable or we
tried to use await in the wrong place or
do any other thing that JavaScript
don't like, JavaScript will quit.
It'll just give up, it'll say, I can't
run anymore, I'm done, this is terrible.
And so
we won't get to the next line of code.
And sometimes that is exactly
what we want JavaScript to do.
We want it to stop running our program and
let us know that something has gone
horribly wrong and that it makes sense.
But other times, we might want to maybe
try something again a couple of times,
or maybe try a different way,
or try a fallback.
Maybe we have a default dongle
image that we want to load if
loading a random image doesn't work.
For example, or maybe we were just
trying to do something optional,
like add in some extra data,
some extra facts about JavaScript or
about our dongles that aren't
really required in order for
our application to do its job, but maybe
we're just adding some extra pizzas there.
And in that case, if we have an error in
that optional part, we wanna just kind of
skip it and forget about it and say,
whatever and keep going on with our lives.
And so,
in JavaScript the way that we can do that,
the way that we can handle an error,
and either,
maybe give ourselves some more
information about it or do something else
if we run into an error, is using
a couple of friends, try and catch.
So a try catch block here, which we
have a try block and a catch block,
they work together in order to try
something that might give us an error.
So for example, we have a function that
we're calling here in our try block,
inside our curly braces,
that we think might throw an error.
And try is going to try to run it, and
if it works and there's no error, cool,
we're just gonna go on with the rest of
the code after this whole try catch block.
But if this might throw an error,
does throw an error,
then we're going to enter the catch block.
And JavaScript is gonna pass in an error
object to that catch block that
we now have as an error that we
can capture in these parenthesis,
we can capture that as a variable,
which you'll often see called error,
or e, or err, something like that.
So we can catch that object, that
exception or error object that JavaScript
gives us and then maybe we wanna log
a message about it with some details.
Say, as if, we can even use that code
then, we write into an error and
maybe we wanna do something else here.
Maybe we wanna use a fallback value or we
want to try some other way of getting this
optional information or
something like that.
Or maybe we just wanna say,
whatever, let's just keep going,
and the catch block is going to
allow us to decide what we wanna do
in the event that whatever happened
in the try block, throws an error.
And in this case, we're just gonna log
whatever and keep rolling with the homies.
I hope folks that seemed clueless cuz
otherwise this won't make any sense.
But, [LAUGH] in any case, suffice it to
say that try catch is how we can handle
errors in our program and make decisions
in our code about what to do if we run
into an error in a particular line of
code or a particular block of code.
We can have more than one
line in that try block two.
So you can read all about try and
catch on MDN, of course, and
you can read a lot more about error,
objects, and how that works,
and what kind of things we can work
with there on our error objects,
and see some more examples
of how to use try and catch.
And that is something you'll see in
a lot of professional JavaScript code
where we're doing things that might not
work, so this is how we would handle it.